[Music]
hey there welcome to nowhere spear
acquired so pesto is one of my all-time
favorite sauces and tonight I'm going to
show you how to do a really simple dish
chicken pesto pasta you know the chicken
obviously it's great protein makes it
nice and substantial and the flavors are
absolutely awesome and its really super
easy to make let's go ahead and get I'm
gonna go ahead and show you how to
blanch basil now this is this is what
we're gonna use for our pesto but you
know blanton is a technique that we
should all learn pick up here I've
obviously got a big bunch of herbs then
you can do this with a bunch of
different different herbs I've got a pot
of boiling salted water and literally
you just drop that right in there give
it a little stir and what the blanching
is gonna do it's actually gonna cook the
leaves and believe it or not although
the it's sitting in water the blanching
of the cooking is actually gonna draw
water out of the cells of the of the
basil and really just kind of
concentrate the flavor break down those
the cell structures and give it or take
away some of that raw taste it really
only takes you know 35 to 50 or so
seconds definitely under a minute
to do a blanch like this provided you
got the water nice and hot what you
should do and then once you get it done
we're gonna remove it strain it and then
run it under ice-cold water
to really set that bright green color if
you just kind of take it out it'll turn
a dull kind of
you know military green puke-green
which isn't which isn't any good alright
let's go ahead and make our basil I've
got my my blanched spinach right here
I'm just gonna you know actually I don't
even need to drop it off or chop it up
you can kind of tear it up a little bit
if you got some of the thicker stems you
know beaten beaten those up a little
might might help a little bit but you
don't need to do a whole lot to it I've
also got my my toasted pine nuts I'm
gonna use what is that half a handful
probably a tablespoon and a half at
least to start with I've got a few in
reserve I'm also gonna add some Parmesan
cheese this is again probably two good
tablespoons there and then we'll hit it
with some olive oil a good amount so the
olive oil plus a little bit of water is
going to provide the blender with enough
liquid to actually spin and really
combine all these ingredients we also
want to seize it a little bit with salt
and with pepper and then I also like to
add just a little bit of lemon juice to
mine you know really half a teaspoon or
so certainly start with you're not
looking for obviously a lemon tasting
sauce but I find the acid from the from
the lemon helps keep everything a little
bit greener and and I also like the the
brightness that the acidity gives the
give the pesto so I'm gonna go ahead and
start pulsing this and let everything
just kind of come
gather inform that nice paste once it
does we'll come back and take a look
okay so we've gotten a nice little
breakdown now first thing you want to do
you may have to may have to scrape down
the sides if if you find it sticking
around but you want to give it a little
taste see if it needs anything this
actually it tastes pretty good as it is
I don't know if you noticed when I
started up I actually think this this
pesto is a little bit looser than what I
would normally expect I must have just
put in a little bit extra water but you
know not a huge deal we can that we can
deal with that one it'll still be great
if you use it as is too if you add a few
more nuts and maybe a little bit more
cheese that will that will help thicken
it up and finally when I tasted it I it
was great but I found it could use still
a little bit more a little bit more that
little bit more acid so I'm gonna touch
it up with a little more limit and then
we're gonna go ahead and just blend it
up again okay pesto is done you want to
of course give it another taste make
sure make sure it meets your approval
this one does so as I said in the
beginning I messed up on my basil I
forgot to add any garlic now normally I
would chop a clove of garlic throw it in
the blender blend it all together that
obviously gives a nice garlicky flavor
to the dish but since I forgot it what
are you gonna do you can do a couple
things one forget it just go ahead and
serve it as is
it'll still be delicious option two we
know how to mince garlic that's on the
site as well I've just got a clove here
that I finely minced and just put it in
afterwards you know you can even add
this back to your blender throw in a
clove of garlic and get it in there
i I've already put the blender away so
you know don't worry about it
don't tell anybody nobody's gonna know
other than you it'll be totally fun
what's our bait or once our pesto is
made he comes everything becomes really
yeah that's a penne obviously going to
throw it in some boiling salted water
and give it a quick stir like I do all
pastas to make sure they don't stick
together and just cook these to a nice
al dente texture so I just drained off
my pasta and I've got some chicken so
I'm gonna throw into a pan with a little
bit of olive oil now my chicken is is
leftover chicken that I just picked out
of the fridge spiced up so I'm gonna
throw this in just to heat it up so it
doesn't really cool anything down and
it's certainly in a hot pan doesn't
really take long
yeah 20 30 seconds not a big deal
once it's in there though once it's
there we're gonna add the pasta back and
season everything up finish our pesto
okay it's literally been fixed 30
seconds - there - or a chicken is
already cooked
I'm just gonna turn the heat off and
I've got our pesto that we made earlier
and I'm just gonna add that directly in
and then toss the pesto with the chicken
so it doesn't think too much and I don't
want to cook the pesto for very long
it's like a new kind of an uncooked
pasta sauce itself you want to make sure
it is nicely coated and once it is you
want to make sure you give your pasta
your noodle a taste to make sure the
seasoning is on this one can use just a
touch more salt pepper and then we're
gonna plate it up so here is our pesto
chicken with you know penne pasta it's
an absolutely killer dish and really
easy to make especially if you you know
keep some of that pesto in the freezer
and then you can just pull it out and
literally have dinner and the time it
takes to make the pasta I'll see you
next time on the recipe required
[Music]